.TH PWM 1
.SH NAME
PWM - An X11 window manager
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pwm3
.I "[options]"
.SH "DESCRIPTION"

The original PWM was the first tabbing window manager. This version of
PWM is based on the code of Ion and is actually exactly the same window
manager with only differences in default configuration files, configuration
file lookup paths and some options.

.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.B \-display host:display.screen
X display to manage
.TP
.B \-conffile configfile
Configuration file to use instead of default
.TP
.B \-searchdir dir
Directory to search for configuration files and other scripts
.TP
.B \-oneroot
On X servers with multiple (traditional non-Xinerama) screens, manage only
default screen (root window), not all, as given by the -display option or
in the DISPLAY environment variable.
.TP
.B \-session session_name
Set session name. This option affects where workspace and other save files are
put (~/.pwm3/session_name if option set).
.TP
.B \-help
Show help on command line options
.TP
.B \-version
Show version
.TP
.B \-about
Show about text (version, author, license)

.SH BINDINGS

These are the default key and pointer bindings. (\fBMod1\fP) depends on your
system. On PC:s with XFree86 it is probably bound to the left Alt key
(\fBAlt_L\fP). On Suns it is usually bound to the diamond keys
(\fBMeta_L\fP, \fBMeta_R\fP). Use \fIxmodmap(1x)\fP to find out.

The string in square brackets after a binding group heading below indicates
the module that whose configuration file defines these bindings.

.SS Globally available bindings

.TP
.B Mod1+1, Mod1+2, Mod1+3, Mod1+4, Mod1+5, Mod1+6, Mod1+7, Mod1+8, Mod1+9, Mod1+0
Switch to n:th object (workspace, full screen client window) within current screen.
.TP
.B Mod1+comma, Mod1+period
Switch to next/previous object within current screen.
.TP
.B Mod1+K K
Go to first region demanding attention or previously active one.
.TP
.B Mod1+K T
Clear all tags.
.TP
.B Mod1+Shift+1, Mod1+Shift+2
Go to n:th screen on multihead setup.
.TP
.B Mod1+Shift+comma, Mod1+Shift+period
Go to next/previous screen on multihead setup.
.TP
.B Mod1+F9
Create a new workspace of chosen default type.
.TP
.B Button3 press
Display the main menu.
.TP
.B Button2 press
Display the window list menu.
.TP
.B Mod1+Tab
Forward-circulate focus.
.TP
.B Mod1+K Tab
Backward-circulate focus.
.TP
.B Mod1+K R
Raise focused object, if possible.
.TP
.B F12
Display the main menu.


.SS Bindings operating on all frames and screens and their children

.TP
.B Mod1+C
Close current object.


.SS Bindings operating on all frames and their children

.TP
.B Mod1+K H, Mod1+K V
Maximize the frame horizontally/vertically.
.TP
.B Button3 press
Display context menu.
.TP
.B Mod1+R
Begin move/resize mode.
.TP
.B Button1 click at tab, Button2 click at tab
Switch the frame to display the object indicated by the tab.
.TP
.B Button1 drag at border, Mod1+Button3 drag
Resize the frame.
.TP
.B Mod1+Button1 drag
Move the frame.
.TP
.B Button1 drag at tab, Button2 drag at tab
Move objects between frames by dragging and dropping the tab.

.TP
.B Button1 double click at tab
Toggle shade mode
.TP
.B Button1 press at tab, Button1 press at border, Mod1+Button1 click
Raise the frame.
.TP
.B Mod1+Button3 click
Lower the frame.
.TP
.B Button1 drag at tab
Move the frame.


.SS Bindings operating on top-level (non-transient) frames as well as screens

.TP
.B Mod1+T
Toggle tag of current object.
.TP
.B F2
Run a terminal emulator.
.TP
.B Mod1+K D
Detach (float) or reattach an object to its previous location.
.TP
.B Mod1+F1
Show the PWM manual page.
.TP
.B Mod1+M
Display context menu.


.SS Bindings operating on top-level (non-transient) frames

.TP
.B Mod1+K 1, Mod1+K 2, Mod1+K 3, Mod1+K 4, Mod1+K 5, Mod1+K 6, Mod1+K 7, Mod1+K 8, Mod1+K 9, Mod1+K 0
Switch to n:th object within the frame.
.TP
.B Mod1+K N, Mod1+K P
Switch to next/previous object within the frame.
.TP
.B Mod1+K comma, Mod1+K period
Move current object within the frame left/right.
.TP
.B Mod1+K H, Mod1+K V
Maximize the frame horizontally/vertically.
.TP
.B Mod1+K A
Attach tagged objects to this frame.


.SS Bindings for client windows

.TP
.B Mod1+L
Nudge the client window. This might help with some programs' resizing problems.
.TP
.B Mod1+K C
Kill client owning the client window.
.TP
.B Mod1+K Q
Send next key press to the client window. Some programs may not allow this by default.

.TP
.B Mod1+Return
Toggle client window group full-screen mode


.SS Move/resize mode bindings

.TP
.B Escape
Cancel the resize mode.
.TP
.B Return
End the resize mode.
.TP
.B Left, Right, Up, Down, F, B, P, N
Grow in specified direction.
.TP
.B Shift+Left, Shift+Right, Shift+Up, Shift+Down, Shift+F, Shift+B, Shift+P, Shift+N
Shrink in specified direction.
.TP
.B Mod1+Left, Mod1+Right, Mod1+Up, Mod1+Down, Mod1+F, Mod1+B, Mod1+P, Mod1+N
Move in specified direction.


.SS Bindings for menus [mod_menu]

.TP
.B Escape, Control+G, Control+C, Left
Close the menu.
.TP
.B Return, KP_Enter, Control+M, Right
Activate current menu entry.
.TP
.B Control+N, Control+P, Up, Down
Select next/previous menu entry.
.TP
.B BackSpace
Clear the menu's typeahead find buffer.



.SH FILES AND DIRECTORIES
.TP
.B /etc/ion3plus/cfg_pwm.lua
System default main configuration file
.TP
.B /etc/ion3plus/cfg_*.lua
Other configuration files
.TP
.B /etc/ion3plus/look_*.lua
Colour scheme configuration files
.TP
.B ~/.pwm3/
User configuration files
.TP
.B ~/.pwm3/cfg_pwm.lua
User default main configuration file (overrides system default)

.SH SEE ALSO

For more information, see
\fIion3(1)\fP.

.SH AUTHOR
Both PWM and Ion have been written by Tuomo Valkonen <tuomov at iki.fi>.
